[FEATURE] Code Blocks updated (#279)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Guide-HowToDocument: Documentation/WritingReST/Codeblocks.rst

Use :ref:`placeholders <codeblocks-placeholders>` in angle brackets
(`<placeholder-name>`) to refer to a place in the code where you don't care
about the exact value.

.. index:: reST directives; code-block
.. _codeblock-directive:

Code block directive
====================

A code block has the following syntax:

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: Documentation/MyDocs.rst

   .. code-block:: <language>
      :caption: <caption>
      <options>

      <code>

There must be a new line between the options and the code. There must not be a
new line between options or options and directive line. Otherwise the rendering
will fail.

<language>
   The language of the code-block. We commonly use the following: :rst:`php`,
   :rst:`typoscript` (also for tsconfig), :rst:`yaml`, :rst:`javascript`,
   :rst:`html` (also for Fluid), :rst:`shell`, :rst:`xml`, :rst:`none`.

   See all
   :ref:`available lexers <writing-rest-codeblocks-available-lexers>`

<caption>
   To make orientation in code-examples easier we try to always add
   a caption with the name of the file where the example should go. If the code
   should be entered in the backend explain where it should go there.

<options>

>    The following options may be used, all options but :rst:`caption` are

Reviewer: Caption is optional, too. Am I wrong?

Author: By Syntax yes, But we want to always use it.

Reviewer: OK, but then we should also phrase it like this. This is already done in the other sections but here it sounds like the there is a technical reason why the caption is required.

Author: How would you rephrase it?

Reviewer: See suggestion.

   optional:

   .. code-block:: rst

      .. code-block:: <language>
         :caption: <caption>
         :linenos:
         :lineno-start: <start-number>
         :emphasize-lines: <emphasized-line-numbers>
         :name: <reference-label>

   :rst:`linenos`
      Show line numbers.

   :rst:`lineno-start`
      Start line numbers with <start-number>.

   :rst:`emphasize-lines`
      <emphasized-line-numbers> contains a comma separated list of line numbers
      to be emphasized.

   :rst:`name`
      Set a <reference-label>. This label can be used to link from any given

>       text to the specific code-block. The name needs to be unique within one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      text to the specific code block. The name needs to be unique within one
```

      manual.

   See also the official
   `sphinx documentation on code-blocks <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#directive-code-block>`__.

Examples
========

> A simple code-block with syntax highlighting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simple code block with syntax highlighting
```

--------------------------------------------

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Source (rst)

      .. code-block:: rst
         :caption: Documentation/MyDocs.rst

         .. code-block:: php
            :caption: EXT:site_package/Configuration/TCA/Overrides/sys_template.php

            /**
             * Add default TypoScript (constants and setup)
             */
            \TYPO3\CMS\Core\Utility\ExtensionManagementUtility::addStaticFile(
                'site_package',
                'Configuration/TypoScript',
                'Site Package'
            );

   .. group-tab:: Output

      .. code-block:: php
         :caption: EXT:site_package/Configuration/TCA/Overrides/sys_template.php

         /**
          * Add default TypoScript (constants and setup)
          */
         \TYPO3\CMS\Core\Utility\ExtensionManagementUtility::addStaticFile(
             'site_package',
             'Configuration/TypoScript',
             'Site Package'
         );

> Code-block with line numbers and highlighting of one line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code block with line numbers and highlighting of one line
```

---------------------------------------------------------

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Source (rst)

      .. code-block:: rst
         :caption: Documentation/MyDocs.rst

         .. code-block:: php
            :caption: EXT:site_package/Configuration/TCA/Overrides/sys_template.php
            :linenos:
            :emphasize-lines: 4, 7

            /**
             * Add default TypoScript (constants and setup)
             */
            \TYPO3\CMS\Core\Utility\ExtensionManagementUtility::addStaticFile(
                'site_package',
                'Configuration/TypoScript',
                'Site Package'
            );

   .. group-tab:: Output

      .. code-block:: php
         :caption: EXT:site_package/Configuration/TCA/Overrides/sys_template.php
         :linenos:
         :emphasize-lines: 4, 7

         /**
          * Add default TypoScript (constants and setup)
          */
         \TYPO3\CMS\Core\Utility\ExtensionManagementUtility::addStaticFile(
             'site_package',
             'Configuration/TypoScript',
             'Site Package'
         );

> Use code-blocks containing diffs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use code blocks containing diffs
```

(`<placeholder-name>`) to refer to a place in the code where the exact
value is not important.

.. index:: reST directives; code-block
.. _codeblock-directive:

Code block directive
====================

A code block has the following syntax:

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: Documentation/MyDocs.rst

   .. code-block:: <language>
      :caption: <caption>
      <options>

      <code>

There must be a newline between the options and the code. There must not be a
newline between the directive line and options or within options. Otherwise the rendering
will fail.

<language>
   The language of the code-block. We commonly use the following: :rst:`php`,
   :rst:`typoscript` (also for tsconfig), :rst:`yaml`, :rst:`javascript`,
   :rst:`html` (also for Fluid), :rst:`shell`, :rst:`xml`, :rst:`none`.

   See all
   :ref:`available lexers <writing-rest-codeblocks-available-lexers>`

<caption>
   To make orientation in code examples easier try to always add
   a caption with the name of the file where the example should go. If the code
   should be manually entered in the TYPO3 backend explain where it should go there.

<options>

>    The following options may be used, all options but :rst:`caption` are
>    optional:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The following options may be used, all options are optional,
   but :rst:`caption` is highly recommended:
```

code blocks will use the language as specified in the `highlight` directive for
syntax highlighting.

> This language works as fall back for the outdated code-blocks that do not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This language works as fall back for the outdated code blocks that do not
```

**Tip:** Try the Pygments Demo at http://pygments.org/

`Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/>`__ uses `Pygments
<http://pygments.org/>`__ for highlighting. On a machine that has Pygments
installed the command `pygmentize -L` will list all available lexers.

Literalinclude
==============

> A draw back of code-blocks is that most editors cannot properly highlight or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A drawback of code blocks is that most editors cannot properly highlight or
```

> indent code within code-blocks. The directive :rst:`literalinclude` enables you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
indent code within code blocks. The directive :rst:`literalinclude` enables you
```

> to store longer code blocks in an external file with the proper ending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to store longer code blocks in an external file with the proper ending.
```

`ending` means `file extension`?

The :rst:`literalinclude` directive imports the file and displays its content as

> code-block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code block.
```

In the XML and HTML markup languages, which make extensive use of angle
brackets, the comment tag :html:`<!-- placeholder-name -->` is used to insert
placeholders. A `<placeholder-name>` looks like a regular element and would lead to confusion.

> Outdated code-block formats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outdated code block formats
```

===========================

> For historic reasons the :rst:`:caption:` option is missing in many code-blocks.
> We try to add them wherever we touch the rst files. Do not add new code-blocks
> without a caption stating the file name. It is often very confusing for new
> developer where a certain code-snippet should go. The recommended file name
> answers many questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For historic reasons the :rst:`:caption:` option is missing in many code blocks.
Try to add them whenever you touch the RST files. Do not add new code blocks
without a caption stating the file name. It is often very confusing for new
developers where a certain code snippet should go. The recommended file name
can help to clear this up.
```

> We recommend to always write the language name after the code-block directive.
> This makes it easier for first time contributors to adjust or copy-paste code
> blocks. For historic reasons there are code-blocks without an explicit language:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend to always write the language name after the code block directive.
This makes it easier for first time contributors to adjust or copy-paste code
blocks. For historic reasons there are code blocks without an explicit language.
```

If you do not explicitly set the language, the default language (as set with
the :ref:`codeblocks-highlight-directive`) is used. If no highlight directive
was used, the default set in :file:`Documentation/Includes.rst.txt` is used.

In the past a simplified shorthand directive was widely used: A sentence ending
with two double colon :rst:`::`, followed by a new line and an indented

> block of code. This quick syntax has several draw-backs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
block of code. This quick syntax has several drawbacks:
```

*  It is confusing to developers who seldom contribute
*  We cannot give a caption and state the file name where the code should go.
*  The script language is only stated implicitly.

> *  Such codeblocks cannot be easily copy-pasted to use them as models for your
>    own code-blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Such code blocks cannot be easily copy-pasted to use them as foundation for your
   own code blocks.
```

> Change such code-blocks as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change such code blocks as follows:
```

developers where a certain code snippet should go. The recommended file name
can help to clear this up.

> We recommend thay you always write the language name after the code block directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that you always write the language name after the code block directive.
```
